# Jira comment updater

## Parameters to the script

```
usage: jipdate.py [-h] [-e] [-f FILE] [-l] [-p] [-q] [-t] [-u USER] [-v] [-x]
                  [--all]

Script used to update comments in Jira

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -e                    Only include epics (no initiatives or stories). Used
                        in combination with "-q"
  -f FILE, --file FILE  Load status update from FILE. NOTE: -q will overwrite
                        the content of FILE
  -l                    Get the last comment from Jira
  -p                    Print Jira query result to stdout (no editor or jira updates)
  -q                    Query Jira for issue(s) assigned to you
  -s                    Be silent, only show jira updates and not entire
                        status file
  -t                    Use the test server
  -u USER, --user USER  Query Jira with another Jira username (first.last or
                        first.last@linaro.org)
  -v                    Output some verbose debugging info
  -x                    EXCLUDE stories from gathered Jira issues. Used in
                        combination with "-q"
  --all                 Load all Jira issues, not just the once marked in
                        progress.
  --dry-run             Do not make any changes to JIRA
```

## Installation
#### 1. Clone this git
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/Linaro/jipdate.git
```

#### 2. Get the Jira and YAML package for Python
Note that Jipdate has been updated (2018-10-23) to run Python 3 instead of
Python 2. In case you need the last known working Python 2 version, then please
give the [python2 branch](https://github.com/Linaro/jipdate/tree/python2) a
try.

If Python 3 is the default Python version on your machine, then run:
```bash
$ cd <jipdate>
$ pip install --user -r requirements.txt
```

If Python **2** is the default Python version on your machine, then run:
```bash
$ cd <jipdate>
$ pip3 install --user -r requirements.txt
```

**Note** On recent MAC OS X you may have to run (note the '--upgrade')
```bash
$ cd <jipdate>
$ pip install --user --upgrade -r requirements.txt
```

## Jira server
The script by default uses the **official** Linaro Jira server. If you intend to
play around with the script just for testing purposes, then you **should** use
the `-t` argument, which will make the script use the Linaro **test** Jira
server instead.

## Status file
A status file could be seen as a simple text file containing a header which
could be written as a normal email. This is then followed by one or more
issue/comment sections. The idea is that you should be able to use the same file
regardless if you are just updating Jira or if you want to send it as a status
update to your team via email for example.

An example of a status update file (generated by the script itself) could look
like this:
```ini
Hi,

This is the status update from me for the last week.

Cheers!
Joakim Bech

[SWG-23]
# Header: Kernel Hardening
# Type: Initiative
# Status: In Progress
No updates since last week.

[SWG-18]
# Header: GlobalPlatform adaptations
# Type: Initiative
# Status: In Progress
No updates since last week.

[SWG-1]
# Header: TEE/TrustZone: Open Source Trusted OS
# Type: Initiative
# Status: In Progress
Maintenance still ongoing.

```
The parsing rules are rather simple.
* Lines containing **only** `[...]` with no leading or trailing white space or
  other characters are considered **tags**.
* A tag beginning with a jira issue key such as `[ISSUE-123]` marks the start
  for a new issue.  Everything after that will be considered as a comment
  belonging to that particular issue until it finds another tag
  containing for example `[ISSUE-124]` (since that marks the start for another
  new comment to another issue), or until it meets a tag, which doesn't match
  the format of a JIRA tag, such as `[STOP]` or `[OTHER]`, for example.
* Lines starting with `#` are **editor comments** and will not be included in
  the actual update message (i.e., the same way as git deals with comments in
  commit messages).  Comments can also be embedded inside a JIRA tag, for
  example writing `[ISSUE-124 # My important JIRA issue title]`.
* Everything **before** the first `[ISSUE-123]` in a status file will be ignored
  when updating Jira. Instead that will typically be used to write additional
  information complementing the status update when re-using the status file to
  send email about your status.  This information can also come after the JIRA
  issue updates, as long as a tag without a valid JIRA issue key tells the
  script to stop processing text, for example by inserting a tag such as
  `[STOP]` or `[OTHER]` (see above).
* It is possible to refer to other issues in a comment as long as it is not
  standalone on a single line, i.e., in a comment section it is fine to write that
  "This depends on `[ISSUE-111]`".

## Config file
Jipdate uses a config file to store various settings. If the Jipdate script does
not find any config file it will create it for you (with default settings). The
default location is:
```bash
$HOME/.config/jipdate/jipdate.yml
```

But the script will also pick up the config from
```bash
$HOME/jipdate.yml
<root-of-where-is-installed-jipdate>/jipdate.yml
```

The default name of the script is `jipdate.yml`, but it also supports the legacy
name `config.yml`.

The config-file is pretty self explanatory with comments describing the
settings. So instead of describe them here, just open the config file and
read/tweak according to your needs.

## Run the script
With command line parameters, there several ways to run the script. But the three
most common cases are listed here below (section 2-4). Pick the one that suites
your needs best, but first, start with exporting your credentials to the Jira
server.
#### 1. Provide your credentials
There are a couple of different ways to provide your credentials, so pick the
one that you prefer. Beware that there is a `-u`, `--user` argument in the
script. That argument shall **not** be used for providing your username. The
intention with that argument is to be able to query other Jira users than
yourself.

##### 1.1 Script asks for it
If you provide no credentials at all when running the script, you will be asked
to enter both the username and the password. After entering the username, it
will also ask whether you would like to save the username. If you answer '`y`'
to that question, the script will save it to the config file (`jipdate.yml`) and
in the future we script will pick up the username from the config instead.

##### 1.2 Using the shell
```bash
$ export JIRA_USERNAME="john.doe@linaro.org"
$ export JIRA_PASSWORD="my-super-secret-password"
```
We know that this isn't best practice when it comes to security. In bash you can
play with `HISTCONTROL` to make bash not save the information in the history
file. In many configurations it is sufficient to add a leading space before the
export command to make bash not save a command to history.

##### 1.3 Using the configuration file
You can save your username in the configuration file (`jipdate.yml`) by adding a
line saying:
```yml
username: john.doe@linaro.org
```
Alternatively, just follow `1.1 Script asks for it` above.


#### 2. Create/update a status file
If you have no previous status file, then the easiest way to is to make the
script create one for you, this is done by (generates a file similar to the one
above in the previous section):
```bash
$ ./jipdate.py -q -f status.txt
```

or if want **all** of your open issues, then run:
```bash
$ ./jipdate.py -q --all -f status.txt
```

**Note** that when using the `-f` parameter in combination with `-q` will make
the script overwrite the current file. If you **do not** want to override the
file, then look at the next section(s).

#### 3. Use a status file without query Jira
If you **do not** want the script to override you status file then you **should
not** use the `-q` parameter when running the script. An example when this could
be used is when you already have a file containing almost up-to-date information
and you only want to make minor modifications to it. I.e, it could be that you
re-use the same file week after week. So, in this case you simply run the script
by:
```bash
$ ./jipdate.py -f status.txt
```

#### 4. Do not use any local file
As an alternative to working with a local file, you can simply call the script
without using the `-f` parameter. In that case it will simply use the output
from the Jira query (in a temporary file). Here is how to do that:
```bash
$ ./jipdate.py -q
```

or if want **all** of your open issues, then run:
```bash
$ ./jipdate.py -q --all
```

## Known bugs
* Sometimes people see captcha verifications for some reason, see
[Issue#24](https://github.com/Linaro/jipdate/issues/24)
([Issue#15](https://github.com/Linaro/jipdate/issues/15) kind of touches that
 too).
